“There's none,” grunted the innkeeper, looking at the guest's boots, dusty
and dirty. “Ask at the Old Narakort.”
“I would rather stay here.”
“There is none.” The innkeeper finally recognized the stranger's accent.
He was Rivian.
“I’ll pay.” The outsider spoke quietly, as if unsure, and the whole nasty
affair began. A pockmarked beanpole of a man who, from the moment the
outsider had entered had not taken his gloomy eyes from him, got up and
approached the counter. Two of his companions rose behind him, no more
than two paces away.
“There's no room to be had, you Rivian vagabond,” rasped the
pockmarked man, standing right next to the outsider. “We don't need people
like you in Wyzim. This is a decent town!”
The outsider took his tankard and moved away. He glanced at the
innkeeper, who avoided his eyes. It did not even occur to him to defend the
Rivian. After all, who liked Rivians?
“All Rivians are thieves,” the pockmarked man went on, his breath
smelling of beer, garlic and anger. “Do you hear me, you bastard?”
“He can't hear you. His ears are full of shit,” said one of the men with
him, and the second man cackled.
“Pay and leave!” yelled the pocked man.
Only now did the Rivian look at him.
“I’ll finish my beer.”
“We'll give you a hand,” the pockmarked man hissed. He knocked the
tankard from the stranger's hand and simultaneously grabbing him by the
shoulder, dug his fingers into the leather strap which ran diagonally across
the outsider's chest. One of the men behind him raised a fist to strike. The
outsider curled up on the spot, throwing the pockmarked man off balance.
The sword hissed in its sheath and glistened briefly in the dim light. The
place seethed. There was a scream, and one of the few remaining customers
tumbled toward the exit. A chair fell with a crash and earthenware smacked
hollowly against the floor. The innkeeper, his lips trembling, looked at the
horribly slashed face of the pocked man, who, clinging with his fingers to
the edge of the counter, was slowly sinking from sight. The other two were
lying on the floor, one motionless, the other writhing and convulsing in a
dark, spreading puddle. A woman's hysterical scream vibrated in the air,