piercing the ears as the innkeeper shuddered, caught his breath, and
vomited.
The stranger retreated toward the wall, tense and alert. He held the
sword in both hands, sweeping the blade through the air. No one moved.
Terror, like cold mud, was clear on their faces, paralyzing limbs and
blocking throats.
Three guards rushed into the tavern with thuds and clangs. They must
have been close by. They had truncheons wound with leather straps at the
ready, but at the sight of the corpses, drew their swords. The Rivian pressed
his back against the wall and, with his left hand, pulled a dagger from his
boot.
“Throw that down!” one of the guards yelled with a trembling voice.
“Throw that down, you thug! You're coming with us!”
The second guard kicked aside the table between himself and the Rivian.
“Go get the men, Treska!” he shouted to the third guard, who had stayed
closer to the door.
“No need,” said the stranger, lowering his sword. “I’ll come by myself.”
“You'll go, you son of a bitch, on the end of a rope!” yelled the trembling
guard. “Throw that sword down or I’ll smash your head in!”
The Rivian straightened. He quickly pinned his blade under his left arm
and with his right hand raised toward the guards, swiftly drew a
complicated sign in the air. The clout-nails which studded his tunic from his
wrists to elbows flashed.
The guards drew back, shielding their faces with their arms. One of the
customers sprang up while another darted to the door. The woman screamed
again, wild and earsplitting.
“I’ll come by myself,” repeated the stranger in his resounding, metallic
voice. “And the three of you will go in front of me. Take me to the
castellan. I don't know the way.”
“Yes, sir,” mumbled the guard, dropping his head. He made toward the
exit, looking around tentatively. The other two guards followed him out
backward, hastily. The stranger followed in their tracks, sheathing his sword
and dagger. As they passed the tables the remaining customers hid their
faces from the dangerous stranger.